src/content/docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Fix common issues
---

The first steps to investigate any problem is to make sure you are using the latest version and then check the [JavaScript Console](https://developers.google.com/chrome-developer-tools/docs/console#opening_the_console). _Iframe-resizer_ will output the details of any issues it detects and give advise on how to fix them.

Solutions for the most common problems are outlined in this section. If you need further help, then please ask questions on [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/iframe-resizer) with the `iframe-resizer` tag.

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/davidjbradshaw/iframe-resizer/issues). Please read the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/davidjbradshaw/iframe-resizer/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening a ticket, as this will ensure a faster resolution.

### Multiple IFrames on one page

When the resizer does not work using multiple IFrames on one page, make sure that each frame has an unique id or no ids at all.

<!--
### IFrame not sizing correctly

If a larger element of content is removed from the normal document flow, through the use of absolute positioning, it can prevent the browser working out the correct size of the page. In such cases you can change the [heightCalculationMethod](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod) to uses one of the other sizing methods.
-->

### IFrame not downsizing

The most likely cause of this problem is having set the height of an element to be 100% of the page somewhere in your CSS.

This can often be got around by adding a `data-iframe-size` attribute to the element that you want to define the bottom position of the page.

<!--
Not having a valid [HTML document type](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_type_declaration) in the iFrame can also sometimes prevent downsizing. At it's most simplest this can be the following.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
```
-->

### IFrame not resizing

The most common cause of this is not placing the [@iframe-resizer/child](../getting_started/#child-page-setup) package inside the iFramed page.

<!--
### IFrame not detecting CSS :hover events

CSS `:hover` events that cause the page to resize outside of the standard document flow can sometimes be difficult to detect. If this is an issue, then a workaround is to create `mouseover` and `mouseout` event listeners on the elements that are resized via CSS and have these events call the [parentIFrame.size()](##parentiframesize-customheight-customwidth) method. With jQuery this can be done as follows.

```js
function resize(){
  if ('parentIFrame' in window) {
    // Fix race condition in FireFox with setTimeout
    setTimeout(parentIFrame.size.bind(parentIFrame),0);
  }
}

$(*Element with hover style*).hover(resize);
```

### IFrame not detecting textarea resizes

Both FireFox and the WebKit based browsers allow the user to resize `textarea` input boxes. Unfortunately the WebKit browsers don't trigger the mutation event when this happens. This can be worked around to some extent with the following code.

```js
function store() {
  this.x = this.offsetWidth
  this.y = this.offsetHeight
}

$('textarea')
  .each(store)
  .on('mouseover mouseout', function() {
    if (this.offsetWidth !== this.x || this.offsetHeight !== this.y) {
      store.call(this)
      if ('parentIFrame' in window) {
        parentIFrame.size()
      }
    }
  })
```

### IFrame flickers

Some of the alternate [height calculation methods](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod), such as **max** can cause the iFrame to flicker. This is due to the fact that to check for downsizing, the iFrame first has to be downsized before the new height can be worked out. This effect can be reduced by setting a [minSize](./docs/parent_page/options.md#minheight--minwidth) value, so that the iFrame is not reset to zero height before regrowing.

In modern browsers, if the default [height calculation method](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod) does not work, then it is normally best to use **taggedElement** or **lowestElement**, which are both flicker free.

<i>Please see the notes section under [heightCalculationMethod](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod) to understand the limitations of the different options.</i>
-->

### Localhost 127.0.0.1 and file:///

When an iframe is located on your local machine the browser adds extra security restrictions to cross-domain iframes. These will stop iframe-resizer from functioning. If you need to test something locally, then it is best to use the external IP Address of the machine.

### Failed to execute 'postMessage' on 'DOMWindow'

This error occurs when the parent window tries to send a message to the iframe before it has loaded. This library makes multiple attempts to talk to the iFrame, so if everything is working then you can safely ignore this error message.

If you're still having problems, or you really want to not ignore the error, then you can try delaying the call to `iframeResize()` until after the `onLoad` event of the iframe has fired.

If this does not fix the problem then check `x-Frame-Options` http header on the server that is sending the iframe content, as this can also block calls to `postMessage` if set incorrectly.

### ParentIFrame not found errors

The `parentIFrame` object is created once the iFrame has been initially resized. If you wish to use it during page load you will need call it from the onReady.

```html
<script>
  window.iFrameResizer = {
    onReady: function () {
      var myId = window.parentIFrame.getId();
      console.log("The ID of the iFrame in the parent page is: " + myId);
    },
  };
</script>
<script src="node_modules/@iframe-resizer/child/index.umd.js"></script>
```

### PDF and OpenDocument files

It is not possible to add the required JavaScript to PDF and ODF files. However, you can get around this limitation by using [ViewerJS](http://viewerjs.org/) to render these files inside a HTML page, that also contains the iFrame JavaScript file ([iframeResizer.contentWindow.min.js](https://raw.github.com/davidjbradshaw/iframe-resizer/master/js/iframeResizer.contentWindow.min.js)).

### Unexpected message received error

By default the origin of incoming messages is checked against the `src` attribute of the iFrame. If they don't match an error is thrown. This behaviour can be disabled by setting the [checkOrigin](../api/parent/#checkorigin) option to **false**.

```js
iframeResize({ checkOrigin: false });
```

### Width not resizing

By default only changes in height are detected, if you want to calculate the width instead then you need to set the [direction](../api/parent/#direction) option to **'width'**.

```js
iframeResize({ direction: "width" });
```

### Frame has not responded within 5 seconds

This can happen when postMessage is being blocked in browser. There could be multiple reasons to that but in some cases we found that RocketLoader extension within Cloudflare was the reason. Try disabling it if you are using cloudflare.

Commit message:

expand anser on no response error

src/content/docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Fix common issues
---

The first steps to investigate any problem is to make sure you are using the latest version and then check the [JavaScript Console](https://developers.google.com/chrome-developer-tools/docs/console#opening_the_console). _Iframe-resizer_ will output the details of any issues it detects and give advise on how to fix them.

Solutions for the most common problems are outlined in this section. If you need further help, then please ask questions on [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/iframe-resizer) with the `iframe-resizer` tag.

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/davidjbradshaw/iframe-resizer/issues). Please read the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/davidjbradshaw/iframe-resizer/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening a ticket, as this will ensure a faster resolution.

### Multiple IFrames on one page

When the resizer does not work using multiple IFrames on one page, make sure that each frame has an unique id or no ids at all.

<!--
### IFrame not sizing correctly

If a larger element of content is removed from the normal document flow, through the use of absolute positioning, it can prevent the browser working out the correct size of the page. In such cases you can change the [heightCalculationMethod](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod) to uses one of the other sizing methods.
-->

### IFrame not downsizing

The most likely cause of this problem is having set the height of an element to be 100% of the page somewhere in your CSS.

This can often be got around by adding a `data-iframe-size` attribute to the element that you want to define the bottom position of the page.

<!--
Not having a valid [HTML document type](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_type_declaration) in the iFrame can also sometimes prevent downsizing. At it's most simplest this can be the following.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
```
-->

### IFrame not resizing

The most common cause of this is not placing the [@iframe-resizer/child](../getting_started/#child-page-setup) package inside the iFramed page.

<!--
### IFrame not detecting CSS :hover events

CSS `:hover` events that cause the page to resize outside of the standard document flow can sometimes be difficult to detect. If this is an issue, then a workaround is to create `mouseover` and `mouseout` event listeners on the elements that are resized via CSS and have these events call the [parentIFrame.size()](##parentiframesize-customheight-customwidth) method. With jQuery this can be done as follows.

```js
function resize(){
  if ('parentIFrame' in window) {
    // Fix race condition in FireFox with setTimeout
    setTimeout(parentIFrame.size.bind(parentIFrame),0);
  }
}

$(*Element with hover style*).hover(resize);
```

### IFrame not detecting textarea resizes

Both FireFox and the WebKit based browsers allow the user to resize `textarea` input boxes. Unfortunately the WebKit browsers don't trigger the mutation event when this happens. This can be worked around to some extent with the following code.

```js
function store() {
  this.x = this.offsetWidth
  this.y = this.offsetHeight
}

$('textarea')
  .each(store)
  .on('mouseover mouseout', function() {
    if (this.offsetWidth !== this.x || this.offsetHeight !== this.y) {
      store.call(this)
      if ('parentIFrame' in window) {
        parentIFrame.size()
      }
    }
  })
```

### IFrame flickers

Some of the alternate [height calculation methods](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod), such as **max** can cause the iFrame to flicker. This is due to the fact that to check for downsizing, the iFrame first has to be downsized before the new height can be worked out. This effect can be reduced by setting a [minSize](./docs/parent_page/options.md#minheight--minwidth) value, so that the iFrame is not reset to zero height before regrowing.

In modern browsers, if the default [height calculation method](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod) does not work, then it is normally best to use **taggedElement** or **lowestElement**, which are both flicker free.

<i>Please see the notes section under [heightCalculationMethod](./parent_page/options.md#heightcalculationmethod) to understand the limitations of the different options.</i>
-->

### Localhost 127.0.0.1 and file:///

When an iframe is located on your local machine the browser adds extra security restrictions to cross-domain iframes. These will stop iframe-resizer from functioning. If you need to test something locally, then it is best to use the external IP Address of the machine.

### Failed to execute 'postMessage' on 'DOMWindow'

This error occurs when the parent window tries to send a message to the iframe before it has loaded. This library makes multiple attempts to talk to the iFrame, so if everything is working then you can safely ignore this error message.

If you're still having problems, or you really want to not ignore the error, then you can try delaying the call to `iframeResize()` until after the `onLoad` event of the iframe has fired.

If this does not fix the problem then check `x-Frame-Options` http header on the server that is sending the iframe content, as this can also block calls to `postMessage` if set incorrectly.

### ParentIFrame not found errors

The `parentIFrame` object is created once the iFrame has been initially resized. If you wish to use it during page load you will need call it from the onReady.

```html
<script>
  window.iFrameResizer = {
    onReady: function () {
      var myId = window.parentIFrame.getId();
      console.log("The ID of the iFrame in the parent page is: " + myId);
    },
  };
</script>
<script src="node_modules/@iframe-resizer/child/index.umd.js"></script>
```

### PDF and OpenDocument files

It is not possible to add the required JavaScript to PDF and ODF files. However, you can get around this limitation by using [ViewerJS](http://viewerjs.org/) to render these files inside a HTML page, that also contains the iFrame JavaScript file ([iframeResizer.contentWindow.min.js](https://raw.github.com/davidjbradshaw/iframe-resizer/master/js/iframeResizer.contentWindow.min.js)).

### Unexpected message received error

By default the origin of incoming messages is checked against the `src` attribute of the iFrame. If they don't match an error is thrown. This behaviour can be disabled by setting the [checkOrigin](../api/parent/#checkorigin) option to **false**.

```js
iframeResize({ checkOrigin: false });
```

### Width not resizing

By default only changes in height are detected, if you want to calculate the width instead then you need to set the [direction](../api/parent/#direction) option to **'width'**.

```js
iframeResize({ direction: "width" });
```

### Frame has not responded within 5 seconds

This error happens when the iframe is slow to respond, or is blocked from responding to the request from the parent page.

If everything is working, then this message can be ignored, or if you prefer you can set a longer timeout. On the otherhand if you are not getting a response from the iframe and the child package has been loaded in the iframe, then you need to check that iframe has not been sandboxed, either by setting optins on the `<iframe>` tag, or in the http headers of the iframe.
